= Frequently Asked Questions =

[[PageOutline(2-3,,inline)]]

----

== Using the service ==

=== May I use the screenshots of my own webpage for any purpose? ===

Yes, even for inclusion in closed, for-cost works. It would be nice if 
you'd mention that you used browsershots.org for the screenshots, but you 
don't have to.

=== Will this service remain free of charge? ===

Yes. For the foreseeable future, there will be free screenshots for 
everybody. So far, there are no fixed plans for a commercial model. If and 
when a paid priority service is introduced, the free service will continue.

=== How long will my screenshots stay on the server? ===

Screenshots will be deleted when they haven't been accessed in ten days. 
This means that if you post a link to your screenshots on your blog, and 
people look at them again and again, the screenshots will stay on the 
server forever. If you want to have your screenshots removed manually, send 
email to [mailto:johann@browsershots.org johann@browsershots.org].

=== Why are all browsers selected by default? ===

You're right that it would probably reduce the queue length if users would 
have to select each browser that they want to test. But the main goal of 
this project is to raise awareness for browser diversity. So I think it's 
better to have all browsers enabled by default and find other ways to 
reduce the length of the queue, like adding more screenshot factories. See 
HowToCreateNewShotFactory if you want to help.

----

== Troubleshooting ==

=== Why don't I get any screenshots? ===

If the queue is very long, you may want to increase the '''Maximum Wait''' 
option for your screenshot requests to prevent timeouts. The default is 30 
minutes, but you can select up to 4 hours. Also, if your requested 
configuration is too specific (e.g. specific Flash or Java version) there 
may not be matching screenshot factories all the time. Try the '''Don't 
care''' setting for quicker results.

=== Where can I find my screenshots? ===

Your screenshots will appear near the top on the same page where you select 
the browsers. It will look like 
[http://browsershots.org/website/http://browsershots.org/ this]. You can 
bookmark that page to come back to it later to see your screenshots, and 
also to request new screenshots of the same website. If you don't get any 
screenshots on that page, please see the question above.

=== Some of my screenshots show a browser with a blank page. How come? ===

Our Linux browsers have 45 seconds to load and display a page. Mac and 
Windows browsers get only 30 seconds because they don't run in parallel. If 
this isn't enough time to display your page, your web server is probably 
too slow or overloaded.

=== My menu appears twice in the screenshots. Why? ===

That's not a problem with your page but a side effect of the multi-page 
merging. The screenshots are taken one screen at a time, and then merged 
together to produce a tall screenshot. If your menu doesn't scroll with the 
rest of the page, it will appear multiple times.

=== My screenshots are only the size of one screen, but my page is longer. 
===

Sometimes the automatic scrolling doesn't work. The reason could be that 
your page uses frames, or that it sets the keyboard focus to an input field 
with JavaScript.

----

== Running a screenshot factory ==

=== I don't have Python on my computer. Can I still run a ShotFactory? ===

Python is included with recent versions of Linux and Mac OS, and on Windows 
it should be easy to install.

If you really can't get Python to run on your computer, you could write 
your own screenshot factory in your favorite programming language, 
according to the FactoryInterface specification.

=== Where can I get a username/password for running a ShotFactory? ===

See HowToCreateNewShotFactory and send email to 
[mailto:johann@browsershots.org johann@browsershots.org]. I'm going to add 
an automatic web-based registration form "real soon now".

=== Can I use my computer while the ShotFactory is running? ===

On Mac and Windows, the screenshot factory program uses the desktop, so you 
will have to stop it when you want to use the computer.

On Linux, the program runs in the background and uses a VNC server for the 
screen. You can use your computer at the same time, and if the system load 
is over a configurable limit, the screenshot factory program will stop 
making screenshots until the system is idle again. The default load limit 
is 1.0, but you can change it with the command line option -l.

=== xmlrpclib.!ProtocolError: <!ProtocolError for browsershots.org/RPC2: 
404 Not Found> ===

That's because the /RPC2 interface was for the old version 0.3 of 
Browsershots which moved to http://v03.browsershots.org/ for historic 
reference. The current version 0.4 uses http://api.browsershots.org/xmlrpc/ 
for the screenshot factory API. You should install a package with "0.4" in 
the name, or check out the [http://svn.browsershots.org/trunk/shotfactory/ 
trunk] from Subversion.

=== !RuntimeError: unsafe command '/usr/bin/opera -newpage' ===

For security reasons, the browser command must not contain whitespace or 
start with a slash. The purpose of this mechanism is to avoid commands like 
'''rm -rf /''' or '''/tmp/rootkit'''. The best solution is to create a 
simple shell script with your desired options, make it executable (chmod 
a+x), put it somewhere on your PATH and then use the name of the shell 
script as the browser command.

----

== Background info ==

=== How did you come up with the idea? ===

I was inspired by the following existing services. One night in November 
2004, I went to bed too early, and while I was lying awake, suddenly the 
distributed volunteer idea struck me.

 * [http://www.danvine.com/icapture/ Daniel Vine's iCapture]
 * [http://fundisom.com/g5/ lixlpixel Safari Screenshot Generator]
 * [http://www.browsercam.com/ BrowserCam]

=== How long has Browsershots been around? ===

Public beta test started in February 2005 
([http://v02.browsershots.org/blog/2005/02/ old blog entry]). The first 
public release (milestone:0.1.0) was in March 2005 
([http://freshmeat.net/projects/browsershots/?branch_id=56805&release_id=189
981 article on freshmeat]). See the 
[http://trac.browsershots.org/roadmap?show=all roadmap] for a release 
history. The project was rewritten completely between milestone:0.2.6 and 
milestone:0.3-alpha1.

=== Where do you get all those different machines? ===

This is the one feature that sets this project apart from similar online 
services. The screenshots are made on distributed computers that are run by 
volunteers. You can see a list of [http://browsershots.org/factories/ 
active screenshot factories]. Most of these are normal desktop machines 
with domestic broadband internet. Distributed community processing ensures 
O/S and browser diversity, but it makes quality assurance much harder. See 
also DistributedArchitecture and FactoryInterface.